[ECK]: 3.5.0 document variablesFrom variable substitution in StackConfigPolicy (#7477)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/elastic-stack-configuration-policies.md

* `resourceSelector`: A [label selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/) to identify the {{es}} clusters and {{kib}} instances to which the policy applies in combination with the namespace(s). If `resourceSelector` is not defined, the policy applies to all {{es}} clusters and {{kib}} instances in the namespace(s).

> * {applies_to}`eck: ga 3.5` `variablesFrom`: A list of ConfigMaps or Secrets whose keys become substitution variables available as `${VAR}` expressions in the `elasticsearch` and `kibana` spec fields. Refer to [Variable substitution](#k8s-stack-config-policy-variable-substitution) for details.

Reviewer: I think the description for this section on line 83 is no longer accurate given the inclusion of this 

>The following fields are optional. They control which {{es}} clusters and {{kib}} instances the policy targets.

Author: Good catch, updated to "They control policy targeting, priority, and variable substitution." in e89287de1

    - secretName: kibana-shared-secret
```

> ### Use variable substitution to share a policy across environments [k8s-stack-config-policy-variable-substitution-example]

Reviewer: I'd probably just put this example inside of the variable substitution section below (or just kill it because you have an example in the detailed variable subs docs)

Author: Removed it entirely. The variable substitution reference section already has an equivalent end-to-end example and covers automatic reconciliation on ConfigMap updates, so the duplicate wasn't adding much. in 17b01aab5

```{applies_to}
deployment:
  eck: ga 3.5
```

> Store environment-specific values in a ConfigMap and reference them from the policy with `${VAR}`. For full details on syntax, namespace rules, and the `optional` flag, refer to [Variable substitution](#k8s-stack-config-policy-variable-substitution).

Reviewer: if you refer to a flag in an example block, then you should use the flag in the example block. I don't think it's particularly helpful without context, so if you choose to keep the example independent, I'd just kill the line

Author: Went with removing the whole example section (see above), so this resolves itself. in 17b01aab5

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: es-tuning
data:
  RECOVERY_RATE: "200mb"
  BREAKER_LIMIT: "50%"
---
apiVersion: stackconfigpolicy.k8s.elastic.co/v1alpha1
kind: StackConfigPolicy
metadata:
  name: shared-policy
spec:
  variablesFrom:
    - kind: ConfigMap
      name: es-tuning
  resourceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      env: production
  elasticsearch:
    clusterSettings:
      indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec: "${RECOVERY_RATE}"
      indices.breaker.fielddata.limit: "${BREAKER_LIMIT}"
```

> Updating the ConfigMap triggers an automatic reconciliation of the policy without modifying the policy resource itself.

Reviewer: same note ... info below the codeblock, especially if it's only a line or two, is likely to be missed

Author: Removed in 17b01aab5

## Variable substitution [k8s-stack-config-policy-variable-substitution]
```{applies_to}
deployment:
  eck: ga 3.5
```

Use `variablesFrom` to load environment-specific values from ConfigMaps or Secrets. You can then reference those values as `${VAR}` expressions in the policy's `elasticsearch` and `kibana` fields where you need them. Variable substitution lets you reuse a single policy definition across multiple environments without duplicating or hardcoding values.

### Define variable sources

Each entry in `variablesFrom` references a ConfigMap or Secret by `kind` and `name`. Every key in the referenced object becomes an available variable:

```yaml
spec:
  variablesFrom:
    - kind: ConfigMap
      name: es-tuning
    - kind: Secret
      name: es-credentials
  elasticsearch:
    clusterSettings:
      indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec: "${RECOVERY_RATE}"
```

The corresponding ConfigMap:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: es-tuning
data:
  RECOVERY_RATE: "200mb"
```

ECK watches all referenced ConfigMaps and Secrets and automatically reconciles the policy whenever a source is updated.

### Syntax

| Expression | Behavior |
|---|---|

> | `${VAR}` | Substituted with the value of `VAR` from the sources. If `VAR` is not defined in any source, left verbatim — this may cause an error downstream if Elasticsearch or Kibana cannot resolve the expression. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `${VAR}` | Substituted with the value of `VAR` from the sources. If `VAR` is not defined in any source, the expression is left verbatim. This can cause an error downstream if {{es}} or {{kib}} cannot resolve the expression. |
```

Author: Applied in e55d9ba94865ea2e6a979de05743f98128d423f2

In this example, clusters labeled with both `env: production` and `tier: critical` have the `production-override-policy` (weight: 100) settings applied, which overwrite the `base-policy` (weight: 0) settings. Other production clusters use only the `base-policy` (weight: 0) settings.

## Variable substitution [k8s-stack-config-policy-variable-substitution]
```{applies_to}
deployment:
  eck: ga 3.5
```

> `variablesFrom` lets you externalise environment-specific values into ConfigMaps or Secrets and reference them as `${VAR}` expressions anywhere in the `elasticsearch` or `kibana` spec fields of a policy. This allows a single policy definition to serve multiple environments without duplicating or hardcoding values.

Reviewer: consider:

```suggestion
Use `variablesFrom` to load environment-specific values from ConfigMaps or Secrets. You can then reference those values as `${VAR}` expressions in the policy’s `elasticsearch` and `kibana` fields where you need them. Variable substitution lets you reuse a single policy definition across multiple environments without duplicating or hardcoding values.
```

Author: Nice, applied your suggestion. in e89287de1

### Define variable sources

Each entry in `variablesFrom` references a ConfigMap or Secret by `kind` and `name`. Every key in the referenced object becomes an available variable:

```yaml
spec:
  variablesFrom:
    - kind: ConfigMap
      name: es-tuning
    - kind: Secret
      name: es-credentials
  elasticsearch:
    clusterSettings:
      indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec: "${RECOVERY_RATE}"
```

The corresponding ConfigMap:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: es-tuning
data:
  RECOVERY_RATE: "200mb"
```

ECK watches all referenced ConfigMaps and Secrets and automatically reconciles the policy whenever a source is updated.

### Syntax

> | Expression | Behaviour |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Expression | Behavior |
```

Author: Fixed in 5879245ff

|---|---|

> | `${VAR}` | Substituted with the value of `VAR` from the sources. Error if `VAR` is not defined in any source. |

Reviewer: is this not left verbatim, not errored out? https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/blob/main/pkg/controller/stackconfigpolicy/substitution/substitution.go#L127

or maybe it fails/has the chance of failing downstream when the key isn’t in a source and Elasticsearch/Kibana also can’t resolve the leftover ${…}?

Author: You're right, this won't give an error! thx. Updated in 988f031ba

| `${VAR:-default}` | Substituted with the value of `VAR`, or `default` if `VAR` is not defined. |

> Only **string-typed** fields can be templated. Numeric, boolean, and object fields cannot be substituted because source values are always strings and the target type cannot be inferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only string-typed fields can be templated. Numeric, boolean, and object fields cannot be substituted because source values are always strings and the target type cannot be inferred.
```

Author: Removed in 5879245ff

{{es}}-native variable expressions (such as `${node.name}`) are left verbatim and resolved by {{es}} at runtime — ECK only substitutes keys that are present in a declared source.

### Source precedence and namespace rules

> When multiple sources define the same key, the **last entry** in `variablesFrom` takes precedence.

Reviewer: we avoid bolding for emphasis

```suggestion
When multiple sources define the same key, the last entry in `variablesFrom` takes precedence.
```

Author: Removed in 5879245ff
